03-008e/22.01 1/4 General C onditions  
January 20 22 version  
INTRODUCTION  
The purpose of these General Conditions is to establish clear regulations governing relations between Banque Cantonale 
Vaudoise ("BCV") and each individual or legal entity with which it does business (the "Customer"). Also applicable are 
speci fic agreements, special regulations applying to certain categories of business, customary banking practices , 
in particular the uniform rules and usage of the International Chamber of Commerce, and customary practices in financial 
markets.  
 
1. AUTHORIZED USE OF AN ACCOUNT  
Signatures given in writing by the Customer shall be the 
only signatures recognized by BCV. They shall remain 
valid, notwithstanding any conflicting or divergent entries in 
the Commercial Register or in any publication, until revoked 
by the C ustomer in writing. If the authorized use of an 
account is based on providing a correct code or password 
or on some other authentication technology (the "Code"), 
BCV shall rely solely on the proper verification of such a 
Code by the system in question. The  Customer shall be 
bound by any transactions so processed.

2. SIGNATURE VERIFICATION AND PROOF OF 
AUTHORITY  
Any loss or damage resulting from the failure by BCV to 
detect identity fraud or forgeries, including in the context of 
online banking services, shall be borne by the Customer, 
except in the event of gross negligence on the part of BCV. 
The Customer shall be responsible for taking all measures 
necessary and within the Customer's power to prevent 
unauthorized third parties from gaining access to the 
Custo mer's bank accounts and services. The Customer shall 
be liable for any breach of the Customer’s duty of care.

3. LEGAL INCAPACITY  
Any loss or damage resulting from the legal incapacity of the 
Customer or of a third party shall be borne by the Customer, 
unless  such incapacity has been published in the Feuille des 
Avis Officiels du Canton de Vaud [official gazette], or unless 
BCV has been notified in writing of such incapacity.

4. COMMUNICATIONS AND ADDRESSES  
The Customer must accurately communicate all required 
information to BCV, including the Customer's name, 
headquarters address, home address, permanent residence 
address, tax residence address, contact and mailing details, 
nationality(ies), and any other information that BCV requires. 
This obligation shall apply  to the Customer’s information and 
the information of any agents or representatives, beneficial 
owners of assets in the Customer’s account(s), persons with a 
controlling interest, beneficiaries, or any other individual or 
entity involved in the Customer’s relationship with BCV. The 
Customer must inform BCV in a timely manner of any change 
in circumstances that changes the above information, as well 
as of the revocation of a power of attorney or signing authority.  
Communications from BCV shall be deemed to h ave been 
validly made when sent in accordance with the latest mailing 
instructions received by BCV, or, for instructions for using 
any other data -transfer method, including electronic, once 
the appropriate information is made available by BCV. The 
date sho wn on the counterpart or on the data medium in 
BCV’s possession shall be deemed to be the mailing date or 
the date on which the communication was released. 
Communications retained by BCV in accordance with the 
Customer’s instructions shall be deemed to hav e been 
delivered on the date shown thereon.  
If the Customer or the Customer's authorized representative 
contacts BCV electronically or communicates the Customer's 
email address to BCV, BCV shall be authorized to contact 
the Customer via email in return. Cu stomers who choose to 
communicate with BCV by telephone or electronically assume the risks thereof. Communications that use a 
telephone network or the Internet are not secure; neither thecommunicate with BCV by telephone or electronically assume the risks thereof. Communications that use a 
telephone network or the Internet are not secure; neither the 
Customer’s identity, nor BCV's identity, nor the content of the 
comm unication can be kept confidential, and the flow of data 
between the Customer and BCV may enable a third party to 
infer a banking relationship. Therefore, any damages 
resulting, without limitation, from the loss, interception, 
modification, delay, abuse, t hird-party access, or identity theft 
shall be borne by the Customer, except in the event of gross 
negligence on the part of BCV.  
The Customer shall take all measures necessary to stay in 
contact with BCV. If BCV finds it can no longer reach the 
Customer, B CV shall be authorized to disregard the 
instructions provided and to contact the Customer or the 
Customer's legal successors. Any costs incurred shall be 
borne by the Customer. Should the Customer's assets 
become dormant, BCV shall apply the regulations go verning 
dormant assets.

5. TRANSMISSION ERRORS  
Any loss or damage resulting from the use of postal 
services, the telephone, the  fax machine, or any other 
means of transmission, or of any shipping company, 
particularly that arising from any delays, losses, 
misunderstandings, interceptions, mutilations, or 
duplications, shall be borne by the Customer, except in the 
event of gross negligence on the part of BCV.

6. NON -EXECUTION OR INCORRECT EXECUTION  
In the event of loss or damage imputable to the non -
execution or i ncorrect execution of any order, BCV’s liability 
shall be limited solely to loss of interest, unless BCV has 
been expressly notified in writing of the risk of more 
extensive loss or damage in any given case.  
Regardless of the type of order, BCV shall be li able only for 
damage caused directly by the incorrect execution of the 
transaction in question, and shall not be liable for any lost 
profit or any other type of indirect damage.  
The Customer alone shall be responsible for the 
consequences of any orders tha t are imprecise, 
incomplete, or erroneous.

7. DELAYED EXECUTION  
BCV shall be authorized to delay, or even cancel, the 
execution of a payment order or any other type of transaction 
due to an investigation relating most notably to money 
laundering or to individ uals or entities that may be or are 
currently subject to sanctions. Should this happen, BCV shall 
not be liable for any loss or damage incurred by the Customer 
as a result of the delayed or canceled order or transaction.

8. CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS  
Any complaints by the Customer regarding the execution or 
non-execution of any instructions, and any discrepancies in 
bank statements or portfolio statements, must be referred 
to BCV immediately upon receipt or becoming aware of 
same, but at the latest within the period prescribed by BCV. 
In particular, bank statements and portfolio statements shall 
be deemed to have been accepted and approved unless 
contested by the Customer within one month of their 
communication, in accordance with the terms shown on 
each statement .2/4 The Customer must immediately inform BCV if an awaited 
communication or document is not received within the 
normal postal delivery period. In cases where banking 
information is provided in another medium or by another 
transmission method, notification must b e made at the time 
when the notice would normally have been released. Any 
loss or damage resulting from the Customer’s failure to act 
in a timely manner shall be borne by the Customer.

9. RIGHT OF LIEN AND SET -OFF 
For all present and future claims BCV may hav e 
against the Customer in the course of their business 
relationship as well as all third -party claims for capital 
initially invested and capital gains (e.g., clawbacks), 
irrespective of the maturity date or nature of such 
claims or of the currencies in whi ch they are 
denominated, the Customer grants BCV a right of set -
off and a right of lien against any and all of the 
Customer’s assets, notably all types of receivables or 
securities (e.g., stocks, bonds, mortgages, documents 
representing goods and merchandi se, derivatives or 
forward contracts with a positive value, book -entry 
securities, and paper securities, including any not 
made out to the bearer) held in custody by BCV or at 
any other location on behalf of the Customer. However, 
the lien shall come into existence only upon the 
vesting of the claim.  
If the Customer defaults, BCV, at its sole discretion, 
shall be entitled to realize the pledged assets either 
through a private sale, based on market values, or 
through legal proceedings.  
These same rights shal l apply to advances and loans 
granted by BCV against special guarantees or without 
collateral.

10. CURRENT ACCOUNTS  
All accounts held by the Customer, irrespective of their 
name or the currency in which they are denominated, shall 
constitute a single current a ccount. Outstanding balances 
on these accounts shall be payable at any time. BCV shall 
be entitled to set off interest and balances between 
accounts, but also reserves the right to enforce each 
account balance separately.  
If the Customer’s total orders exc eed the Customer's 
available assets or overdraft facilities, BCV may decide, at 
its sole discretion, which orders to execute, in full or in part, 
without regard to the date appearing on the orders or the 
date on which they are received by BCV.  
BCV shall cr edit or debit contractual or customary interest 
(including negative interest), fees, and commissions, as 
well as any taxes, on such dates as may be determined by 
BCV. BCV reserves the right to change its interest and 
commission rates and due dates at any t ime. 
The Customer shall inform BCV immediately of any funds 
credited by error to the Customer. BCV may, without prior 
notice, reverse any transaction credited by error to the 
Customer's account, and advise the Customer accordingly.  
Express or tacit approva l of a bank statement shall imply 
approval of the items and transactions contained thereon 
as well as any reservations made by BCV.

11. FOREIGN CURRENCY ASSETS  
Credits and debits in currencies other than Swiss legal 
tender ("Foreign Currency") shall be made i n Swiss francs at 
the rate of exchange in effect at the time of the transaction, 
unless the Customer has given timely instructions to the 
contrary or holds an account in the corresponding currency. 
If the Customer holds only Foreign Currency accounts, then  
credits and debits shall be made in one of the currencies, at 
the sole discretion of BCV. BCV shall invest the equivalent 
amount of Foreign Currency -denominated assets in its own name but for the account of the Customer and at the 
Customer's own risk (up to the amount of the Customer’s 
investment) with counterparties of BCV deemed worthy of 
confidence, either within or outside the currency zone in 
question. The Customer shall in particular bear any legal or 
economic risks that may affect its assets in the countries ofconfidence, either within or outside the currency zone in 
question. The Customer shall in particular bear any legal or 
economic risks that may affect its assets in the countries of 
the Foreign Currency or in any countries where the funds are 
invested or through which they may pass as a result of 
measures taken in those countries.  
The Customer may make use of the Customer's Foreign 
Currency assets by way of a sale or bank  transfer order. 
Any other methods of using the assets shall be subject to 
prior agreement by BCV.

12. DEPOSIT INSURANCE  
As a member of the deposit insurance association 
esisuisse (www.esisuisse.ch), BCV is subject to the 
Convention on deposit protection for Swiss banks and 
securities dealers. Deposits held at BCV are thus insured 
up to CHF 100,000 per Customer. Medium -term notes held 
with BCV in the name of the Customer are likewise insured. 
More information on the deposit insurance system is 
available at www .bcv.ch/en/legal.

13. CHANGES IN RATES AND FEES  
BCV reserves the right to change its fee schedules, 
interest rates (including negative interest rates), and 
commissions at any time, as well as the dates on which 
they are debited or paid, and the methods of thei r 
calculation,  especially in response to changing conditions 
in the money market. BCV shall inform the Customer in 
advance of such changes by sending a circular letter, by 
providing brochures on its premises, or by any other means 
it may deem appropriate. All changes to BCV's terms and 
conditions appearing on bank statements and on securities 
portfolio statements sent to the Customer shall be binding 
on all debtors and asset holders, except where expressly 
contested by them in writing, sent to BCV within th e period 
specified in Article 8.

14. TERMINATION OF THE BUSINESS RELATIONSHIP  
Both the Customer and BCV may terminate their 
business relationship at any time. BCV may in 
particular cancel any credit facilities or commitments it 
may have approved or granted; th ereupon any claims 
of BCV shall immediately become due and payable. 
The business relationship shall not be considered 
definitively terminated until BCV has received full 
payment of all outstanding principal and interest. In 
particular, termination of the b usiness relationship 
shall not entail cancellation of contractual interest 
rates or of any special or general guarantees granted 
to BCV, until all amounts owed to BCV are paid in full.  
If, even after an additional reasonable period prescribed by 
BCV, the C ustomer fails to instruct BCV as to where to 
transfer the Customer’s assets and securities on deposit, 
BCV may physically deliver them or may liquidate them. 
BCV may deposit the proceeds and the Customer's still -
available assets in the place designated by a judge (which 
shall have the effect of discharging BCV from any liability in 
this regard), or may send them, in the form of a check, to 
the last mailing address indicated by the Customer.

15. BILLS OF EXCHANGE, CHECKS, AND OTHER 
PAPER  
BCV shall be entitled to  debit the Customer's account for 
any unpaid bills of exchange, checks, or other paper 
(“Notes") previously credited or discounted. Until such time 
as the debit balance has been settled, BCV shall retain the 
right to demand full payment of such Notes, incl uding 
accessory claims (foreign exchange charges, check fees, 
or other claims) against any party liable under such Notes.3/4 In the case of Notes payable in countries other than 
Switzerland, if action is taken against BCV within the 
statute of limitations app licable in such countries, any loss 
or damage that may result from such claims shall be borne 
by the Customer.

16. TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS  
In order to safeguard the accuracy of transactions, 
BCV may record, without prior notice, conversations 
between the Custo mer and BCV on some telephone 
lines (such as those on the trading floor), through 
video conferencing, or any other digital means of 
communication. Such recordings shall be erased 
regularly at intervals to be determined by BCV.

17. OUTSOURCING  
BCV reserves the  right to outsource certain activities to 
external service providers. These service providers may be 
BCV affiliates or third parties. The service providers to 
which activities are outsourced may, in turn, use 
subcontractors. BCV may outsource the following  activities, 
in whole or in part, on a temporary or permanent basis: 
(i) execution of transactions (e.g., payment transactions); 
(ii) custody and administration of financial instruments; 
(iii) IT services (e.g., hosting IT systems); (iv) printing and 
sendi ng of communications; and (v) other business support 
services. When activities are outsourced, Customer data 
may be sent to the service providers. The service providers 
to which activities are outsourced are required to maintain 
the confidentiality of the data sent to them.

18. DATA PROTECTION  
BCV collects from the Customer or third -party sources the 
personal data about the Customer and parties related to 
the Customer (e.g., an agent or the beneficial owner of the 
assets in the Customer's account(s)) that BCV n eeds for its 
activities.  BCV’s “Data privacy notice ”, which is available at 
www.bcv.ch/en/legal, contains detailed information a bout 
how BCV processes per sonal data.  
BCV processes these data:  
- To fulfill a contractual obligation BCV has to the 
Customer ; 
- To fulfill a legal or regulatory obligation;  
- In the legitimate interests of BCV, specifically:  
• To build a business relationship;  
• To improve BCV’s organization and 
processes, including risk management;  
• For marketing and advertising purposes, 
including to carry out market research, 
customize BCV’s products and services, and 
provide the Customer with personalized 
advice and tailored offers;  
• To enable BCV to enforce or dispute a current 
or future claim or to comply with an 
investigation carried out by a publi c authority 
in Switzerland or abroad.  
Where applicable, these data may also be processed by an 
automated system.

19. BANKING CONFIDENTIALITY  
BCV, its Board of Directors and Executive Board, and its 
employees, agents, and external service providers must 
maintai n the Customer's banking relationship confidential.  
The Customer releases BCV, its Board of Directors and 
Executive Board, and its employees, agents, and external 
service providers from this obligation and expressly 
waives the Customer's right to banking c onfidentiality 
when this is necessary for BCV to provide services to the 
Customer (e.g., carrying out payment transactions and 
trading financial instruments – including derivatives and structured products – currencies, and precious metals), 
especially when  such services have an international 
component.  
The Customer authorizes BCV to communicate Customer 
data to third parties, located in Switzerland or abroad, that 
are involved in such services (e.g., parties that use financial 
market infrastructure – such a s a stock exchange – brokers, 
correspondent banks, sub -custodian banks, issuers, financial 
market supervisory authorities, or any representatives of 
these parties).  
Such disclosure of Customer information is intended to ensure 
(i) the provision of the serv ice and (ii) compliance with legal, 
regulatory (including market practices), and contractualSuch disclosure of Customer information is intended to ensure 
(i) the provision of the serv ice and (ii) compliance with legal, 
regulatory (including market practices), and contractual 
provisions governing the provision of the services.  
In the above cases, BCV does not have control over the data 
once they are communicated to a third party, and if  the third 
party is located outside Switzerland, the Customer data are 
no longer protected by Swiss law. The standards applicable 
outside Switzerland do not necessarily offer the same 
guarantees of confidentiality or data protection as Swiss law.  
The Custo mer acknowledges that if the Customer issues 
payment instructions or transaction orders for Swiss or foreign 
securities, Customer data will be sent to entities that use 
financial infrastructure systems, specifically SWIFT (Society for 
Worldwide Interbank F inancial Telecommunication), and to 
BCV’s correspondent banks. For more information on this 
subject, the Customer is requested to read the Swiss Bankers 
Association’s communication “Information regarding the 
disclosure of client data and other information in international 
payment transactions and investments in foreign securities” 
(available at www.bcv.ch/en/legal).  
The Customer acknowledges and agrees that Customer data 
may be sent to BCV's service providers as part of BCV’s 
outsourced activities within th e meaning of these General 
Conditions. The Customer agrees that BCV shall not be 
obligated to provide services or execute transactions if the 
Customer revokes the Customer's consent to release BCV 
from BCV’s obligation to maintain professional confidential ity 
(including banking confidentiality) in this article.

20. INTERESTS IN OTHER COUNTERPARTIES  
BCV and any of its affiliates and/or their directors, managers, 
and employees may own or have owned interests or 
positions in certain securities, which they may buy or sell at 
any time, or may have acted or traded as market makers. 
They may have had and may have business relationships 
with the issuers of certain securities, and may provide them 
or third parties with corporate -finance services, capital -
market services,  investment services, custody services, or 
any other financial or related service.  
When providing services of any kind, particularly in respect 
to asset investments, BCV may receive benefits, notably in 
the form of retrocessions, commissions, or any other 
services from third parties. The Customer agrees that such 
benefits shall accrue to BCV as compensation  and 
irrevocably agrees not to claim these benefits (their ranges 
and an example of how they are calculated can be found in 
the document “Client informat ion regarding commissions, 
retrocessions, and other benefits ”, available at 
www.bcv.ch/en/legal).

21. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS  
The Customer is responsible for complying with the laws 
and regulations applicable to the Customer, which include 
but are not limited to the obligation to file a tax return and to 
pay any tax owed.

22. PUBLIC HOLIDAYS  
In all dealings with BCV, public holidays shall be those 
recognized as such in Lausanne. Saturday is treated as a 
public holiday.

23. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION  
All relations betw een the Customer and BCV shall be 
governed by and construed in accordance with Swiss 
law. 
The place of performance and the exclusive place of 
jurisdiction for any litigation shall be the place of 
BCV's head office in Lausanne. The place of debt 
collection proceedings against any Customer 
domiciled abroad shall also be the place of BCV's head 
office in Lausanne. Compulsory jurisdictions provided 
by the governing law and international conventions 
ratified by Switzerland remain applicable.  
BCV, however, shall be entitled to take legal action at 
the Customer's place of domicile or before any other 
competent court.

24. AMENDMENTS  
BCV reserves the right to amend its General 
Conditions at any time. The Customer will be informed in 
advance of any amendments, in writing  or by any other 
appropriate means. The amendments shall be deemed 
approved upon usage by the Customer of a BCV service or 
product, unless they are contested in writing by the 
Customer within 30 days of their entry into force.  
In the event of such an obje ction, BCV and the Customer 
each reserve the right to terminate the business 
relationship.  
The Customer is encouraged to consult the current General 
Conditions at www.bcv.ch/en/legal. The Customer may 
obtain a hard copy of the General Conditions currently in 
force at one of BCV’s branches at any time.  
This document is a translation of the French text entitled “Conditions générales”; only the French text is 
authoritative.