Edition January 2020

General Terms and Conditions

These general terms and conditions contain the fundamental princi-
ples  that  govern  the  business  relationship  between  the  client  and 
UBS  Switzerland  AG  (“UBS”)  in  the  absence  of  any  other  special 
agreements.

1. Interest, charges, commission, expenses and taxes
Interest,  charges  (incl.  negative  interest),  commission,  expenses  and 
taxes, which have been agreed upon or are standard, shall be credited 
or  debited  to  the  client  immediately,  monthly,  quarterly,  every  six 
months or annually at the discretion of UBS. 
The  current  interest  rates,  charges  and  commissions  can  be  found  in 
the relevant published fee schedules/product factsheets. Changes may 
occur  at  any  time  due  to  changes  in  market  conditions  or  costs,  re-
spectively, by adjusting the fee schedules/product factsheets, and will 
be communicated by appropriate means. Upon notification, the client 
may,  in  case  of  objection,  terminate  the  service  affected  by  the 
change with immediate effect.

2. Accounts in foreign currencies
UBS  shall  hold  assets  corresponding  to  the  client’s  credit  balances  in 
foreign  currency  in  the  same  currency  within  or  outside  the  area  of 
the currency concerned. 
The  client  shall  bear  proportionately  to  his  share  all  economic  and 
legal consequences of any measures taken by the relevant authorities 
(e.g.  prohibition  of  payment  or  transfer)  which  may  affect  any  of 
UBS’s invested assets in the country of the respective currency, area of 
the currency or investment concerned. 
UBS’s obligations arising from accounts in foreign currencies shall be 
discharged at the place of business of the office at which the accounts 
are held by establishing a credit balance for the client at a UBS branch, 
a correspondent bank or a bank named by the client in the country of 
the currency concerned.

3. Crediting and debiting amounts in foreign currencies
Amounts  in  foreign  currencies  shall  be  credited  or  debited  in  Swiss 
francs unless the client holds an account in the currency concerned or 
has issued instructions to the contrary in due time. 
If the client holds neither a Swiss francs account nor an account in the 
respective  foreign  currency,  UBS  may,  at  its  own  discretion,  credit  or 
debit the amounts concerned to any foreign currency account held by 
the client.

4. Bills of exchange, checks and similar instruments
If UBS has credited bills of exchange, checks and similar instruments to 
the client, it shall be entitled to redebit the applicable amounts to the 
client  in  as  much  as  the  collection  of  funds  subsequently  fails.  The 
same  shall  apply  to  paid  checks  that  are  subsequently  deemed  lost, 
counterfeit  or  deficient.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  all  payment 
claims which arise from such instruments shall remain with UBS.

5. Lien and set-off
UBS has a lien on all assets it holds in its own custody or elsewhere on 
behalf of the client, as well as on all claims the client has against UBS. 
UBS has the right to set off any claims the client may have against UBS 
against any claims accruing to UBS from its business relationship with 
the client, irrespective of the due date and currency of such claims.  
The foregoing shall also apply to any loans and credit facilities whether 
or not such loans are secured by specific collateral. 
In the event of default on the part of the client, UBS shall be entitled to 
realize the pledged assets either by forced or by private sale.

6. Legitimation agreement
Each person who verifies his identity with UBS by means of the speci-
men signature placed on file and/or a separately agreed electronic ver-
ification method, is deemed to be a legitimate user who has the right 
to issue binding orders to UBS. 
UBS shall undertake the verification of identity with customary diligence. 
The instructions thus entered are deemed to be entered by that person. 
UBS shall have performed properly when it carries out these instructions 
or orders in the context of usual business activity.
The client is obligated to store all his banking documents accurately to 
prevent unauthorized third parties from accessing the information con-
tained therein. When issuing orders or instructions, the client shall ob-
serve all precautionary measures to reduce the risk of fraud. The client 
shall  keep  all  means  of  electronic  identification  that  are  provided  (incl. 
passwords and codes) private and confidential in order to prevent mis-
use and shall store them separately and follow all UBS security recom-
mendations for the electronic services/products. If the client identifies ir-
regularities, the client shall make these known to UBS immediately. Any 
losses  or  damages  suffered  due  to  any  breach  of  these  duties  of  care 
shall be borne by the client. 
UBS shall take appropriate measures to identify and prevent fraud. UBS 
shall be liable for any loss or damage suffered due to any failure on its 
part to exercise the appropriate standard of care and diligence custom-
ary in the business. 
Any  loss  or  damage  suffered  other  than  through  a  breach  of  duty  of 
care  by  UBS  or  the  client  shall  be  borne  by  the  party  within  whose 
sphere of influence the action giving rise to the loss or damage has oc-
curred. UBS assumes no liability for loss or damage resulting from trans-
mission error, technical defects and illegal intervention in IT systems or 
computers of the client.

7. Incapacity of the agent
The  client  shall  inform  UBS  immediately  in  writing  if  the  agent  ap-
pointed by him becomes incapacitated or unable to act. If the client fails 
to  notify  UBS  as  aforesaid,  any  loss  or  damage  arising  from  acts  per-
formed  by  the  agent  shall  be  borne  by  the  client,  unless  UBS  is  in 
breach of the standard of care and diligence customary in the business.

8. Notifications
The client shall keep UBS updated of his information provided to UBS, 
e.g.  name,  address,  domicile,  e-mail  address,  telephone  number  etc.
Notifications  from  UBS  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  duly  served  if
sent to the last known address provided by the client.

9. Compliance with law
The client shall be responsible for complying with all laws and regula-
tions applicable to him. This also includes his obligation to declare and 
pay taxes.

10. Execution of orders
If  the  client  issues  one  or  several  orders  which  exceed  the  available 
credit balance or limit he has been granted, UBS may, at its own discre-
tion and irrespective of the date or time the orders are received, decide 
to which extent individual orders are, in full or in part, to be executed. 
In the event of loss or damage due to the incorrect execution or unjus-
tified  non-execution  of  orders,  or  untimely  execution  of  orders  (with 
the exception of stock exchange orders), UBS shall be liable for loss of 
interest. The client shall inform UBS in advance of any further loss or 
damage  likely  to  be  suffered  in  any  given  instance.  Should  the  client 
fail to do so, such loss or damage shall then be borne by the client.

11. Complaints
The client shall raise any complaint in respect of the incorrect execu-
tion  or  non-execution  of  orders,  or  in  respect  of  account  or  custody 
account  statements  or  any  other  communications  from  UBS  immedi-
ately upon receiving notice of the same, but no later than the period 
specified therein by UBS for raising such complaint, where applicable. 
In case the client fails to submit a timely complaint, he may breach his 
obligation  to  minimize  any  loss  and  may  therefore  be  held  liable  for 
any resulting loss or damage.

12. Outsourcing of operations and services
UBS may outsource operations and services to Group entities and third 
parties within Switzerland and abroad. In particular, the administration 
of securities and other financial instruments, payment processing, data 
retention, IT (information and data processing), risk management, com-
pliance, master data management and accounting (financial accounting 
and  controlling),  the  internal  anti-money  laundering  office  and  other 
back-  and  middle-office  activities  may  be  outsourced  in  whole  or  in part. Outsourcing may require the transfer of data to affiliated or third-
party  service  providers,  and  third-party  service  providers  may  involve 
other third-party service providers. All service providers are required to 
comply  with  respective  confidentiality  obligations.  With  regard  to  ser-
vice  providers  located  abroad,  UBS  only  passes  on  data  that  does  not 
refer to the identity of the client.

13. Data protection and banking secrecy
UBS is obliged by law to treat data related to its business relationship 
with the client (“Client data”) as confidential. 
The  client  authorizes  UBS  to  disclose  Client  data  to  Group  entities 
within Switzerland for business purposes. This applies in particular for 
the benefit of holistic and efficient client service delivery as well as in-
formation  on  the  product  offering  across  Group  entities.  The  client 
releases UBS to this extent from its duty of confidentiality and 
data protection and waives bank client confidentiality. UBS will 
make sure that recipients of Client data are bound by applicable confi-
dentiality and data protection obligations. 
The client agrees that UBS is entitled to disclose Client data in order to 
comply with legal or regulatory obligations as well as to safeguard  le-
gitimate interests. This applies in particular to transactions relating to 
foreign  countries  insofar  as  applicable  provisions  demand  disclosure, 
e.g.  to  custodian  banks,  central  securities  depositories,  brokers,  ex-
changes, repositories or authorities.
The  UBS  Data  Privacy  Notice  contains  detailed  information  on  how
UBS  processes  personal  data.  UBS  publishes  its  Data  Privacy  Notice
and  any  related  updates  on  its  website  www.ubs.com/data-privacy-
notice-switzerland. A copy of the current Data Privacy Notice may be
obtained from the client advisor.

14. Transactions and services requiring disclosure of data
UBS is obliged by law to treat data related to its business relationship 
with the client (“Client data”) as confidential. 
In the context of transactions and services UBS performs for the client 
(e.g.  payments,  securities,  derivatives  and  foreign  exchange  transac-
tions, custody services), in particular if they have a foreign connection, 
UBS may be required by applicable laws, self-regulations, market prac-
tices and conditions of issuers, providers and other parties it depends 
on for the performance of such transactions and services, to disclose 
data  related  to  the  transaction  or  service,  the  client  and  related  per-
sons (e.g. beneficial owner). The client permits UBS to do so, also 
on  behalf  of  affected  third  parties,  and  shall  support  UBS in
\complying with such requirements. The client understands and ac-
cepts  that  the  recipients  of  the  data  may  neither  be  bound  by  Swiss 
banking secrecy nor by Swiss data protection laws and that their use 
of the data is not controlled by UBS. UBS shall not be required to per-
form such transactions and services if the client withdraws or refuses 
to give its consent or cooperation.

15. Profiling and marketing
UBS may store, process, combine and use Client Data and data from 
third-party sources and create profiles therefrom. In particular they will 
be used by UBS and its Group entities to provide clients, where appro-
priate,  with  individual  advice,  tailored  offers  and  information  about 
UBS  products  and  services  as  well  as  for  market  research,  marketing 
and risk management purposes. Such data includes in particular: mas-
ter data, financial data (e.g. asset and product data, account and cus-
tody account activity, as well as transaction and payment data, includ-
ing its respective components) and client preferences.

16. Modification of conditions
In justified cases UBS shall be entitled to modify the general terms and 
conditions at any time. UBS shall communicate such modifications in 
advance  and  in  an  appropriate  manner.  The  amendments  shall  be 
deemed  to  have  been  accepted  by  the  client  unless  an  objection  is 
raised in writing within one month of notification. In the event of ob-
jection  the  client  shall  be  free  to  terminate  the  business  relationship 
with immediate effect subject to special agreements.

17. Saturdays as public holidays
In  the  business  relationship  with  UBS,  Saturdays  shall  be  treated  as 
public holidays.

18. Termination of the business relationships
Either the client or UBS shall be entitled to terminate any existing business 
relationships with immediate effect and to terminate or call in any credit 
facility approved or drawn down unless otherwise agreed to in writing. 
If the client, after an appropriate grace period granted by UBS, fails to 
notify UBS where to transfer the assets and credit balances held with 
UBS, UBS shall be entitled to either deliver the assets physically or to 
liquidate them. UBS may, with the effect of discharging all its obliga-
tions towards the client, deposit the proceeds and any credit balances 
at the place designated by a court or may send a check to the client’s 
last known address.